Speaker 0: Hello, hello. I mean, how are you? Can you see me? Can you hear me? Well, yes, and you, yeah, I hear you perfectly great. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Also, for to the last minute. Change, just because in with the other Google, I cannot record the meeting. And I need to do some color code for the purpose of the research. And now here, I can record the whole, so yeah. No problem. Yeah, great. Perfect. Cool. So now I will start recording and maybe maybe just before. Start in the maybe just let me, let me provide some context. So I would say I'm shooting at the Technical University of Munich and NBA in Innovation and business creation. The idea just basically to to learn a different aspect of how to create a company and how to, you know, to create Innovation or innovation and one big topic that I feel really passionate about was about how artificial intelligence and I came from, I from the, it work, I used to live in France. And yeah and but you know I have my experiences as I basically project manager with open source and also we have some open source project and I think it was great for software. But now there's a lot of talks about open source Ai and, you know, there's no much background about it and I said, listen, I want to understand more about the topic, get like different perspective for differing. Let's say business people or more strategy, more developers into community and because it's about a learning process. And so this idea to talk about different people and yeah, so you also developer right and machine learning developer for pruner, Absolutely. So if you recording in progress. All right, so I'm in. I worked, I worked at Pune since October last October. I'm really happy to to have joined a pruner and I work as a developer since 2017, okay? And I always have worked either for Consulting, groups, or other startups, which weren't doing Open Source by the cells. Okay? So as it opens with developer, I did on my free time, some projects with the, for instance, the the community. So working on open source projects for other ngos. But I'm really happy that now, it's part of my full drive to be able to contribute to One open source project and see how we can make business value out of it because the other projects I've booked on are until they for free. Okay, that's great. And I was really happy to discuss with you on this topic because, yeah, this is very interesting to that. Yeah, definitely. So since the last number, I think it's great because I think you have done with witness, basically the chief on his strategy, that before it started. Maybe tell me what is your role inside prune? And I mean, why are you doing there? And if there's any specific like, job related to open sourcing Bruno, You know, like just a question. What do you do in brunette right now? Yeah, sure. Before interesting, what I do I put on, I must introduce what I did and I'm still doing at code carbon because I joined for now because I was a coaching with carbon not because but mainly this was one of my motivations and it's got Carbon on trying to measure the carbon impact of machine learning. Okay, cool. Interesting for me because I worked with a some really interesting scientists, a special evening. The founder the creators of carbon and which is an expert on sexuality, she is an expert on climate change, AI topics such as Canadian. I think that from the middle laboratory and now I keep working with them on those topics to make sure we develop the most useful tool measuring company. So that was a part of my my time and when I saw the opportunity to work at well, it was a natural transition for me to do it more like not only on the measure but also help on produce more efficient models. And We discussed open source at the time. I was about to join and I think the experience I gained encode carbon helped make me enter into. Yeah, that's great. That's awesome. So that, I guess, maybe the okay. Now you can tell us why you didn't pronoun. So I'm currently working as a engineer or platform engineer. I work on tooling and assistance to help other developers or researchers work. So it would be Subs, devops stuff. Okay. Providing capabilities to enable researchers. Do experimentations okay like that? Yes, okay. So understand so most likely so you helped to develop her to say have the infrastructure and quite balanced to so they can do their own development, research, the right infrastructure and so on, that's really awesome. And so from what I understand, you are a person who like open source, you are active could contributing to code carbon. But how do you don't other projects? Like in that? Maybe not like only like sustainability but maybe software He absolutely. So I worked with the NGO media, as I told you since 2021. Okay. So they support other ngos by providing some Manpower and developers to work on projects each year they have like seasons and 10 projects are selected by season. Okay. And I'm working with them. Either to work on those seasonal projects here laboratory. Okay. And also I try to help the internal attack staff of DJ, from good to like building internal platform and work on. Yeah. So it's not not only working on open source code. We also work on the recommendation to provide like internal process to onboard, use new developers, users of the data for good platform. So this data for good, I can promise you a link, thank you very much. I appreciate it. Okay, data for good, okay, nothing I found it data for good foundation. Okay, great. So I guess the technical contribution are more related to to code for carbon, right? Which you basically the question is, like, Um, are you contributing to an basic legit Pub? Repositories or something like that in code for carbon. And two several projects for data for good, providing API backend, apis for some projects and data procedure. So I also do a bit of code. Yes, that's cool. Awesome bracket. Great. So now will now that we have mostly the background done, I guess. The first question just to, to align Concepts and so it's what does open source AI means to you. If there is a different between, like, traditional open source and open source are And your views. So this Intrinsic interesting question, it depends. So I think you know that but it depends on who who says the open source a year for me. I would I would like that more people Use a more strict definition of officers AI because now we all always talk about a picture. Open weights models, which are shared on hacking Facebook. Most of the time we usually do not see any thing related to methods, maybe in some technical articles, but a large models, do not come with the code, which is associated to trading, or Post Trading of Amos. And we see even less data Associated to training. So most of people specially made, for instance, who claim they are a leaders in open source. They are leader in open Waze. Maybe their models are really used in that space. They provide some really nice insights about their message. So for training and post training through articles but it's not fully transparent. Okay, the data Are really not a good. Track because I don't know if you have a followed, but they use the lead gen, which is online. Paris. You know, TV the story about training their models about on books. Okay I don't know. Okay, so maybe I can show you some newspaper article but they used leap Jen which is a way to access to copyright protected documents on IP protected things. And so you cannot say it's an open source model, if it's uses some private data and they don't even discuss it, okay? Okay, so this is the regarding the data set is not like Clear View how they put it together, but regarding the architecture or something like that. For example, where typical practice is in AI, open source for you. Well, how do you see it like more? More clear AI open source. So about the architectures in general, what would what do you consider is a real open source AI? Yeah, you can have a look to play, as I don't know if you know, players know play, our French AI trainers. Okay. Maybe you can share the link. I will share it. Absolutely. Absolutely, I can share you even the hacking phase space. Oh, you are. Yeah, cool. actually, you my screen because I would like to just to show you, it's very clear what they offer, okay, I can share now, I think I think screens that we now then I hope your mind. All things special place. No. Okay, I will do that. So you see here, they propose a lot of things first are trained on this data set command Corpus. The data set has been using. So, Content, which is out of copyright. So it's a public domain, okay? So there's no license for that. Yeah. It's like it's content which is really made to not made but yeah. Not the license allows, these kind of usage, 4 training. Yeah. Domain newspaper from 70 years before. Like it's really interesting. It's a really open and interesting Corpus. You can build in collaboration with French and German, I guess, companies I can share you some newspaper about that if you want. Yeah, I'm appreciate it. So this is the basis of the training of those models and they produce also other Arts. So for instance this is a fine training data set, I guess or a model on a specific data set to fix OCR process when trained to upload archives, oh, okay to use a training. So they propose the whole shoot of tools then it assets, which is open the model and some procedures techniques to. Now, think there are really It's a combination of factors. It's like not only data set, but also the technical reports also. I mean, also, clearly where did they get it from the information and at some tools I mean, Tony is going interesting. The art of fact is Because I guess architecture, you can use whatever right there are many architecture out there so that you need to share just use whatever it is there. But then to really use that that model they explain how they did it. What technique they use. That's super cool. They're appreciated to to see that. Look at that in details later on so this, okay, I got it. This is for you and open source things. So I was asking because maybe he can introduce you to the people who are directing this company. I guess they could be really interesting people for you. Okay. Dresses in Paris my old, look for it. No worries, thank you very much. Yeah, but I can give you another example of the same quality of Open Source. Yeah, she's Alan 2. AI, a2i, sorry. I never. And I okay, and it's a private lab. Okay. Show you. Yeah, yeah. And it was the link to the websites. They I private, they are extremely close to the state of CRT. And they share in. I'm just saying, very accessible way everything. That's shares. They are bigger. and the Beats more fidget like they raise the quote from time to time where players do not they only they don't They cannot really fundraise to go. I don't know why, but they don't have many money, much money. And then AI are really interesting in the reinforcement. Learning, are they provide some state of the word state-of-the-art techniques and they explained them. And it's really interesting for the ml Community to have access to this kind of resources because it trains people from other private Labs on those techniques and that's why people from open AI did mine, it's not the only reason but they can access to this kind of Knowledge from an expert, which is Nathan Lambert. And they can include this in their current work. I think right now reinforced learning is super interesting. It's like most Superstars talking about that in the link. I will look in the details and I think you recall the perfectly Because now you think another components how you see basically AI open source project. It started with the data and the tools and then maybe are it. Reporting reports also about transparency and in architecture so on but then the next question I have is regarding to Pruner. So, so the question is, What specific components of techno technology or prune is open source? Yeah. so, pronoun is integrating, the main was what we consider the main techniques of Making models more efficient. So when talking about quantization caching compilation of models, it's obviously Asian tasks which are made to to make a more efficient. Okay. It's okay. An opinion of course. But what's pruna is offering is the integration of the state of the art methods. In Easy Way, easy and accessible way to use them. Okay, it's a framework to enable non-specialist. Use the state of the arts techniques. Okay? Because looks really quite complex. And in the end, you need to have like a special knowledge to use those different techniques, right? So Bruna, give that for free. And so because we mentioned before about the source in the idea is For example, you are contributing to external projects for you guys as Improvement. Do you want like also external contribution or I mean, what is the whole idea? Open source is more for awareness or basically, how do you see it? You know, we see. We love some external contributions. so, Here we should talk about. What are the benefits more? Generally the benefits of Open Source when you open source of products of yours. Yeah. First you have access to a lot of Mind who are reading the code, people will read, and say, okay this is the way it should be more, maybe they will raise alerts, we have it sometimes. In good carbon saying this is not done correctly, you have been overestimating this or your having a bug here or a security issue here. So having the very often people do that for you is really really interesting, okay. So you can say it's being able to be vigilant. Second thing, people bring lots of new ideas when they know what your tool is being able to do. They can provide new techniques. The same technique that's done better. Okay, so not only you can catch bugs but you can have better ideas if other people are aware. and also, its Maybe it's more forced carbon than pruna but its mission of transparency when you are building. For instance, you are visiting a model. You are opening AI. You are building a model, which is state of the art. Being able in the technical reports to say we are transparent towards the carbon emissions of a tool of our model. Sorry. Thanks to this tool. Is. It helps building trust from your users because they know that they can verify what you say. Okay. Okay, okay. The first is a something which Stacks up over the layers of software? Um, as long as you are able to dive into a stack dependency libraries, you are able to confirm that this product is good or is doing something which is that. And so for now we would like to integrate in other systems or people's information system and having a tool which is open source, let's people will trust on our product and say, okay, we can trust them because they're called seems reliable and safe and well, well, okay, I understand. So you, okay. So if I recap just say something Like a Phillip Phillip following the principle of transparency that we talked about before about this special case for meta. So, prune is basically just giving access to the to the technology so people can see from one side help to correct box. So you bring for improve the technology on the other side. People can validate that actually fulfill the purpose, right? So you guys, you do compression and you can read a code, you can test it by yourself. And you know, say look those guys know what they're doing. They know very well technique and actually is working, but then if I, for example, maybe just knife question because I'm not really into the field. But if I cannot smash my model, like, you know, I run the library's, I don't know it. Maybe as much as we call it. Okay. Now, it's more linear. Like Words more efficiently in inference. What is like, what is? Why should I get this? Like the next step like this, premium, let's say package is Bruno. so we offer some of the things which are working like most of the cases, And I providing a Quality quality. Rate after the compression. Which is at a certain level, okay? once you have done this optimization phase as a open source user, it's a Like this in every software, I can provide you a different example actually. Once you have mastered the open source how to say, level of what she's offered in the open source people you would start asking okay but this I can do it a bit better and you can see that the prune pro package which is paid offer this feature. okay, for instance, we have a recovery feature in the pro package, which once you do the compression, you have a small loss of quality. The recovery feature enables you with the small data set. To remove this quality decreases by retraining very specifically on what has been lost. Okay. That's super interesting. So you mean you can buy you cannot back go backwards in case something Yeah, this is what I understand, right? Like you you optimize? and then, You do your first optimization? Yeah, exactly. And now you become a bit more aware about what is optimization, how can I go deeper? Okay? Exactly. And, and is it like, I mean, I've been checking also the the WhatsApp Bruner, but it's really related to give my the architecture of my model or for example, The type of technology and using, there are some more adapted Technologies for compression than others. So How does it work? Yes, yes, yes. You are right. Yes, we offer. Some of which are really popular cage for specific architectures. Okay, so this basically the what the difference between like open source and let's say more premium Services. You want to like a deeper level of optimization. I think our goal. There is another one. Okay, we are working on providing A set of Tools around the optimization process, okay? Which helps having. An organization organizational, level usage of the optimization. It's another characteristic that you will see on other open source projects. Let me maybe give you another example. Yes. So currently as a developer I'm using Castro which is an open source data, orchestration platform, it's drums over the time. and I integrating this into our information system, As a developer and the open source version is really nice. I can just use it, but if I want to use it with my team or with other teams, one feature I need is being about to have secure access and accessing. So this is not opened by the it's not included in the operator version. But the premium version I can access to user rights Administration panel, where I can say these people have access to this data database and this people access to this one. So it's a sass feature which is helping the organization adopt the tool. Okay. So you understand. So basically I didn't do like a role like open source, you do it, you do everything yourself. Like in crafting, oh yeah. Like a more like Enterprise solution which is just talking playing operate and yeah, that's a lot of sense but then I have a question. How do you guys Decide what remains open source and proprietary. Because if basically made a limited level of understanding, you cannot provide SDK of everything already, that's what the tool, the helmet to do, it kind of on the package, right? And and then you have a tool even better. That actually optimized with that, without really specific more detail cases, but I don't know, just curiosity. Do you have like an open source? How do you organize internally to this? Okay, this goes open source is not open source and we improve that part or basically just still experimentation. So, I think I'm not the best one to talk to about this because Stefan, I don't know. Stephen Goodman. Yeah. So he will be the person to answer this question, okay? It's just it's discussion and okay, okay, it's got it. And also are you providing like open circuit contribution yourself or developer or mostly you kind of hold yourself of doing it. So you can know that. So all the developers can do it. so that's what I Was but apparently I find something. But on the open source repo, I do some chores like packaging, like automating things. Automating tests. Oh, upgrading some some yeah. So I still do some contributions with open source people even if it's not really related to the efficient ml tasks and I find it really cool. Yeah, cool. Alright, so the now because you join in October. Let's, let's think about backwards when when they join. They I mean, I don't know, I think I mean prune because oh, how can face? Yeah, so I don't know. Maybe are you are you familiar with this hulking face? I don't call it open source, but It's pretty vintage when you can upload, don't load models like pruning. Yeah, I'm yeah, they have 10,000 models and that's where I went to the website and applied to the company. Okay, so so because of that basically you you want you decide to apply to brunaugh because you Yeah, I saw that they were operating optimization on a really large scale on a really large number of models. I'm sorry, it wasn't 10,000 at the time, it was the most number of open models of having Facebook. But anyway, it was a tweet. I went to their website so what they did and so that they were opening a job for a position for my exact role. And say, okay, I can apply and because I was also contributor, of course carbon. I think they enjoy the open source. Know. That's cool. It's interesting because somehow You have like a more basically inside about how that basically experimentation like when like for example, what were the learning and what were like, they know good thing about that experiment or you just hugging face? Like nothing. Just Yeah sure we have. Okay this is really important part of our activities. The first task I did when I joined was to Port from their previous infrastructure, these capabilities to automatically smash every model which is published face and my question from their previous. Okay. So it's really important for now. We consider every popular model to to be smashed. There is an arguing algorithm which it's not reads. Every new model and see if it needs to be smashed or not and we track the downloads of the open source models. We have as a key competitive metric to be totally Frank with you. That's because that's all I saw it. Basically the number. I mean, maybe I mean it's public, right. You can see number download and it's quite interesting. But do you work in when you did this in collaboration with some marketing to see? Okay, now we have a new model with match it and then we communicate or how busy. How was that that thing? Oh, Because I guess it's awareness, that's more like marketing purposes or maybe I'm wrong. When we? Like, because we are not. The only people who do this machine process, we may have some Nice API delete but other people do it. Or if you are the first to announce it, you have like a small momentum. Okay, you announced it like internally hugging face in the. You have like two months on Twitter or not really to announce it but to make it available, okay. First to make it available on hugging face platform, people will look for instance, a deep seek everyone quantized know. Okay, so that's interesting. Yeah. So it's like okay so then you need to be like super reactive to to get this momentum and because I guess that's why we have it and whatever model we can smash we smash it and if it's popularly It's just someone else. It won't be popular. Hmm. It's new release. Then we smash it and it okay I guess it they found out that I guess and it was a basically Stephan who decides he is Motors popular or not. Oh I guess the founder design. Who, what is his matching? What is not as much. Oh, do you have like a position which is based on likes of the roads? It can be a better but it's a heuristic about the trends of the bottles. It's automated. Oh really. Oh awesome. Do you really puree? I company. It's not as precise as if it was, who does it every day to make it. Oh, that interesting. And you know, I mean just just because it's interesting about that. Do you have like, Any partnership with hugging face. So, Nothing really official but we collaborate with them on multiple topics. One is about the consultation, we are directly with the team and, for instance, or things like that. So we share a slack Channel and we have some more official Partnerships for instance, last November or December. They released a model, which is the It was a second model of this D series and we did smashing. Specially version of smashed version of this model in many configurations and we did a blog post with them on that. Okay. So there are also releasing their own limb somehow like for A oh that's that's very good and so thank you. That's super insightful to understand. I mean why of the hugging face basically experiment and now this is, you know, I went to this Open source. Party. That was hosted. Double in Paris and in Munich. I don't know your family with Yeah. And what is the newest strategy? I know. We asked this question again, but they just because to get more familiar to understand what, what do you guys want out of this? I mean, this Ripple. Yeah. so, We want to raise awareness about Ephesians ml. Okay, and we want to set. A like our way to do it. Like a standard ideal. I'm talking about what? I understand. Not maybe the company's strategy but What I understand is, if you are a standard on the industry, everyone will be likely to your, your code, your software. The same way I can face it. Everyone uses Transformers or the hugging face Hub Library. Because it's the most standard way of manipulating machine learning models. Yeah. So if we set ourselves at the most standard way of doing officials and then like doing consideration, doing a compilation, Everyone will use Pune. Okay, that's it right? Because in that case, Your approaches. Like, I don't want to have a library in quantization. I don't want to have a library improving, you know, whatever this relationship, I don't know. I just want to have like this glow and Library who wants, The ideas to make a standard like like, how do you say Transformer? Right? For instance, I think it's one of the objectives but not To copy exactly Transformers but yeah. As necessary as this. And it's not only about the direct methods, but it's also providing an ecosystem of tools which helps you like, benchmarking, your models comparing the results doing a lot of things around these efficient optimization process in efficiency. That's interesting. So but where do you provide information is incoming face? For example if you want to look a model in computer vision for my specific use case, I don't know let's say Medical Imaging right I have my model or other maybe medical specific and just maybe like say typically start in which are your picture and then you know do you do LinkedIn profile pictures and maybe I want to some model and so I would go talking face, I will go to see what is the most efficient? so, in terms of, Library of models. You go to fish, if you don't want to do the optimization by yourself, you would like to go to face, okay? To see the to compare, you know, okay. You know, yeah, to help the models. Also, we one thing we would like to do and maybe you can discuss this with a Stefan is to be present on opening the boards. Where you compare the? Okay, maybe I can share you one. Yeah. On which we are maybe aiming to to be. You compare different model on a set of tasks. Okay, is it? Hey, yes. Holistic evolution of language models. and then if you see on this leaderboard that a model contains by Pune, Is as permanent as another one, which is not concise. You will say, okay, I get the same accuracy. For a smaller model or more efficient model, and we'd like to to see what's pronounce offering an opportunity to package and for more custom needs. A paying a package which is prenup. that's interesting, this okay this is like a little work exactly for optimization somehow look like and of the accuracy. Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. And here on a pronoun. We would like to say, even Even when the model are smaller, we can compete with the same models, which are not optimized. On term of quality and accuracy. That does very interesting. Okay, so now I think the expectations are clear. let me see if it was now, we we have so many questions, but you have the answer, all the questions during the And maybe just okay, a good. I have a question up. Now they're super clear this strategy. How do you guys basically as a company are tracking success? And this and also again start from a point, which I'm not really if I'm here how to track open source. Success. I mean, of course I'm I believe it's contribution. But do you have a little ways? Or to actually tell. Okay, this open source strategies working like, you know, now with the with the library is available, I'm not sure. A lot of the signal you can get from every of losing indicators. But it has for short signal, you have the GitHub stars of a repo meaning, how many people found it? So useful, they are liking the river. You have the daily monthly all-time download on the package repository. Maybe, Okay. But this is really linear. The number of downloads. You have a few packages which, which have an exponential increase in terms of lives, but at some point every package becomes a trend and it's growing linearly, so I'm not sure how relevant is this this indicator? And then we have on GitHub the open source tool, which know the website which enables princess contributions. You have engagement coming from this, cushions questions issues requests Bank reporting. Those are numbers. You have the aggregate, those numbers to give you like an engagement score. That's interesting. Yeah, that's the kind of kpi who would like to try to measure how many hours of these open source people. And then a question mostly you as a developer when you when you go to An open source repo. So this is the thing you just do. You want to see to the term in yourself? If the repo is like a pository is is like a worth it? Love you better. I don't know. What is the word like makes sense. You look at exactly just that like this the starter they start counts. Contribution. Public request this you have. I don't know, man. The small a small small process that you have created yourself to sell. This people make sense, I check this. Oh, what do you do in general? Yes. So this is a good question. The answer depends of your role and and because I have been in multiple roles, I can give you those answers. If you are an individual contributor, a developer who wants to interview these quickly in some API or in your parts of your development workflow and you day-to-day work then, I will have a look to the freshness of the code. When was the last commit? When was the last request if they are external contributors or if it's only the internal contributors who are submitting requests And obviously the number of stars and downloads to see if it's used by many people and the edge cases have been identified yet or not. Okay. Maybe on a more infrastructure or UPS point of view like how this can be integrating into information system. You would like to see some more long-term, how to say commitments? Like, is the project by a company is Out of it. Breaking changes happening on the version upgrades. Is numbers that you can. It's things that you can actually see on the open source repo you need to to do some researchers to understand. and maybe when you do some, like, Strategy. For instance, input. Carbon we last year, we built a new website, a new SAS application. We had to decide between two technologies. We and it was more like a strategy point of view for the authentication of the website. What we But also studied the governance of the project. So who takes decisions, how is this project? Following certain type of ecosystem and want to tie our project to this ecosystem and we made a strategic decision which was to integrate the identity ecosystem. I don't know if you know that no, unfortunately, okay, so one of the Python Community around data science but that's really data science. So and we committed on this because strategically for us, we even if the tech we chose was open source and a bit less good than other texts. We could we other software's. Sorry, we committed to do those use this because we personally do developer, he was on specific topics and he is really implanted in this ecosystem and we were able to get ourselves a bit deeper into ecosystem by using his technology. Okay, that's interesting. And that was very like, clear picture. Thank you very much and I guess maybe the the mandatory question is, like, how do you guys are Bruno line with this level? Maybe we're going communities. Do you like align one specific communities or trying to build with your own Community? Well, around this so, for a commercial product, it's a bit different because Share, obviously, we would like, to build our own Community, but I think this is my personal point of view that we, we need to identify a distribution Channel. So for the moment hacking face has been a really great distribution Channel because like, as I saw, you can is doing a promotion on their website, we can really find models of pronoun. So it's making its making us visible. But I think there is something to find about distribution Channel. And one example you can find is our one of our competitors were narrow magic. I don't know if, you know, yeah. Yeah. they wear the main Engineers of So they were part of the meeting of the vln project. Okay, I know this one. But yeah. And they identified additional, which was not easy to identify, which is red hat. Really. Magic should be about by red hat but doing that. The integrated villain the villain project. And then the software that it was 11, deep into the unique Community, because real hat has a really A really large impact on the ecosystem. They build their own version of the Centos. Machine. So, you know, machine that operating system. So there is solution Channel. Now is a really large and they target some Large companies, which are asking for a lot of support on technical things. So, I think this is a really smart move from to have targeted. This, this dishwasher that's super interesting. And I think actually also answered the next question is, how to like combine this strategy with the customer that Precision? But I think you answered perfectly is like that, in those communities, who have like the rake, absolute customers. And like, regards, I mean, I don't know like a better name that for open source that right hat. I mean, they created the whole linen stuff in soil and, but so you, but I guess, That open up, that's good. A good way to approach it right for you to guys to look does ecosystem in Europe. So if there's not closer to that or you're still looking like you see how hugging face like the good opportunity or similar approach. So this is hard to say because you don't want to stick too much because so I'm not part of the strategy and so I cannot say yeah maybe but we don't want to get too much tied to hugging face because at some point we might become not really today but a competitor like not at the same scale. But we would like at some point to get access to the same customers. Do they have like a optimization library in Phase? Oh, yeah. And we were working with them. Okay, but, but because of the optimization is such a big word. Like, are you competitors and collaborated in some point, right? Or how does it work? Yes. We imported their package in our package. Yeah. And we develop Alternatives way of doing the same things, they are doing. because, Don't take it but it's a mess. It's working on a lot of topics and Okay, whatever they can do, they do it and it's repeat the same whatever we can do while integrating in the haging phase framework. We do it also. So yeah. Okay. And then okay, you understand because I think I read one they have this library of optimum optimum optimum. Yeah. Exactly. So I guess but I didn't understand me, but like, behind the scenes is like a specialized in quantization or I don't know, like pruning or they kind of technique that just didn't quite get it, but this more technical in case, we don't need to talk about that. Just one little question, we're gonna face and then they close this chapter. Are you guys hosting once you? Because I just don't understand you basically get the models from hugging face, right? Like these latest one. And then you upload it. You load it and upload it in AWS. So how you face? Okay, here and linking to the initial model, which has served to produce this lighter version. Okay. Perfect awesome. Just we're going to last part. Is we talked about many things like if there's anything else in this context was open, sorry, AI that we have in talk about it. Would you like to share? So I'm not sure it's related to your topic. However, there is an important factor to on open source which is about to regulation. Okay? Yeah. so there is all these AI safety debates which is really not understood. This just will in the tech journalism I guess for the reporting the ahh topics are two fiber cited by too much. The Jose effective, at least, it's taking too much place in these AI safety. So these interests has conducted the California to prepare two to Lowe's, which were to regulate those open source models. They also had impact in the European act reduction, it was really limited because there is a lot of lobbying, I'm going in the Europe and they couldn't have the same impact as the US. But I think this is bringing in the wrong direction. Okay. Banning the or even slowing the Advent of research labs. Or limiting the research on models to specific closed labs. On Frontier models. So sorry, I'm not sure you are aware of this Mission. Yeah, yeah. That's I think this is going on the wrong direction and even on the regulation topic, We should have open and transparent models techniques and data. Because it's the only way that we can regulate securely the safetiness of those models. I'm not sure. It was very clear what I said? No. Yeah, I think I understand the the general direction but I guess it's a question of The how are they controlling like the prick? Because I guess this effective address, they want to control Ai and somehow look like they're more targeting open sour than those clothes lap. And I think of fully agree with you is for unfortunate. But how can they do it? I mean, they don't have the means I mean, unless there's law that go into those the into the yarnish in each state or in Europe, that control it but there's at least one thing and I don't know and it's not about licensing. There is no, there's nothing. There's no much written about license. How to control basically, or how to organize open source. Through license are not your family with the topic or there's no much regardless licenses. It's more like they want to only allow a certain number of actors to produce those Frontier models. Because those would be the only actors who has access to the tooling, and to the methodology to like produce aligned AI. Okay, okay. I think this is a perfect, so I will stop.

Amine SABONI: Hello, hello. I mean, how are you? Can

Wilson CELY: you see me?

Amine SABONI: Can you hear me? Well,

Wilson CELY: yes, and you,

Amine SABONI: yeah, I hear you

Wilson CELY: perfectly great. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Also, for to the last minute. Change, just because in with the other Google, I cannot record the meeting. And I need to do some color code for the purpose of the research. And now here, I can record the whole, so

Amine SABONI: yeah. No problem. Yeah,

Wilson CELY: great. Perfect. Cool. So now I will start recording and maybe maybe just before. Start in the maybe just let me, let me provide some context. So I would say I'm shooting at the Technical University of Munich and NBA in Innovation and business creation. The idea just basically to to learn a different aspect of how to create a company and how to, you know, to create Innovation or innovation and one big topic that I feel really passionate about was about how artificial intelligence and I came from, I from the, it work, I used to live in France. And yeah and but you know I have my experiences as I basically project manager with open source and also we have some open source project and I think it was great for software. But now there's a lot of talks about open source Ai and, you know, there's no much background about it and I said, listen, I want to understand more about the topic, get like different perspective for differing. Let's say business people or more strategy, more developers into community and because it's about a learning process. And so this idea to talk about different people and yeah, so you also developer right and machine learning developer for pruner,

Amine SABONI: Absolutely. So if you recording in progress. All right, so I'm in. I worked, I worked at Pune since October last October. I'm really happy to to have joined a pruner and I work as a developer since 2017,

Wilson CELY: okay?

Amine SABONI: And I always have worked either for Consulting, groups, or other startups, which weren't doing Open Source by the cells. Okay? So as it opens with developer, I did on my free time, some projects with the, for instance, the the community. So working on open source projects for other ngos. But I'm really happy that now, it's part of my full drive to be able to contribute to One open source project and see how we can make business value out of it because the other projects I've booked on are until they for free.

Wilson CELY: Okay, that's great. And

Amine SABONI: I was really happy to discuss with you on this topic because, yeah, this is very interesting to that.

Wilson CELY: Yeah, definitely. So since the last number, I think it's great because I think you have done with witness, basically the chief on his strategy, that before it started. Maybe tell me what is your role inside prune? And I mean, why are you doing there? And if there's any specific like, job related to open sourcing Bruno, You know, like just a question. What do you do in brunette right now?

Amine SABONI: Yeah, sure. Before interesting, what I do I put on, I must introduce what I did and I'm still doing at code carbon because I joined for now because I was a coaching with carbon not because but mainly this was one of my motivations and it's got Carbon on trying to measure the carbon impact of machine learning.

Wilson CELY: Okay,

Amine SABONI: cool. Interesting for me because I worked with a some really interesting scientists, a special evening. The founder the creators of carbon and which is an expert on sexuality, she is an expert on climate change, AI topics

Wilson CELY: such as Canadian. I think that

Amine SABONI: from the middle laboratory and now I keep working with them on those topics to make sure we develop the most useful tool measuring company. So that was a part of my my time and when I saw the opportunity to work at well, it was a natural transition for me to do it more like not only on the measure but also help on produce more efficient models. And We discussed open source at the time. I was about to join and I think the experience I gained encode carbon helped make me enter into. Yeah,

Wilson CELY: that's great. That's awesome. So that, I guess, maybe the okay. Now you can tell us why you didn't pronoun.

Amine SABONI: So I'm currently working as a engineer or platform engineer. I work on tooling and assistance to help other developers or researchers work. So it would be Subs, devops stuff. Okay. Providing capabilities to enable researchers. Do experimentations

Wilson CELY: okay

Amine SABONI: like that? Yes,

Wilson CELY: okay. So understand so most likely so you helped to develop her to say have the infrastructure and quite balanced to so they can do their own development, research, the right infrastructure and so on, that's really awesome. And so from what I understand, you are a person who like open source, you are active could contributing to code carbon. But how do you don't other projects? Like in that? Maybe not like only like sustainability but maybe software

Amine SABONI: He absolutely. So I worked with the NGO media, as I told you since 2021.

Wilson CELY: Okay.

Amine SABONI: So they support other ngos by providing some Manpower and developers to work on projects each year they have like seasons and 10 projects are selected by season.

Wilson CELY: Okay. And

Amine SABONI: I'm working with them. Either to work on those seasonal projects

Wilson CELY: here

Amine SABONI: laboratory. Okay. And also I try to help the internal attack staff of DJ, from good to like building internal platform and work on. Yeah. So it's not not only working on open source code. We also work on the recommendation to provide like internal process to onboard, use new developers, users of the data for good platform. So this data for good, I can promise you a link,

Wilson CELY: thank you very much. I appreciate it. Okay, data for good, okay, nothing I found it data for good foundation. Okay, great. So I guess the technical contribution are more related to to code for carbon, right? Which you basically the question is, like, Um, are you contributing to an basic legit Pub? Repositories or something like that in code for carbon. And

Amine SABONI: two several projects for data for good, providing API backend, apis for some projects and data procedure. So I also do a bit of code. Yes,

Wilson CELY: that's cool. Awesome bracket. Great. So now will now that we have mostly the background done, I guess. The first question just to, to align Concepts and so it's what does open source AI means to you. If there is a different between, like, traditional open source and open source are And your views. So this

Amine SABONI: Intrinsic interesting question, it depends. So I think you know that but it depends on who who says the open source a year for me. I would I would like that more people Use a more strict definition of officers AI because now we all always talk about a picture. Open weights models, which are shared on hacking Facebook. Most of the time we usually do not see any thing related to methods, maybe in some technical articles, but a large models, do not come with the code, which is associated to trading, or Post Trading of Amos.

Wilson CELY: And

Amine SABONI: we see even less data Associated to training. So most of people specially made, for instance, who claim they are a leaders in open source. They are leader in open Waze. Maybe their models are really used in that space. They provide some really nice insights about their message. So for training and post training through articles but it's not fully transparent.

Wilson CELY: Okay,

Amine SABONI: the data Are really not a good. Track because I don't know if you have a followed, but they use the lead gen, which is online. Paris. You know, TV the story about training their models about on books.

Wilson CELY: Okay I don't know.

Amine SABONI: Okay, so maybe I can show you some newspaper article but they used leap Jen which is a way to access to copyright protected documents on IP protected things. And so you cannot say it's an open source model, if it's uses some private data and they don't even discuss it,

Wilson CELY: okay? Okay, so this is the regarding the data set is not like Clear View how they put it together, but regarding the architecture or something like that. For example, where typical practice is in AI, open source for you. Well, how do you see it like more? More clear AI open source.

Amine SABONI: So about the architectures

Wilson CELY: in general, what would what do you consider is a real open source AI?

Amine SABONI: Yeah, you can have a look to play, as I don't know if you know, players

Wilson CELY: know play,

Amine SABONI: our French AI trainers.

Wilson CELY: Okay. Maybe you can share the link. I will share it.

Amine SABONI: Absolutely. Absolutely, I can share you even the hacking phase space.

Wilson CELY: Oh, you are. Yeah, cool.

Amine SABONI: actually, you my screen because I would like to just to show you, it's very clear what they offer, okay, I can share now, I think

Wilson CELY: I think screens that we now then I hope your mind. All things special

Amine SABONI: place. No. Okay, I will do that. So you see here, they propose a lot of things first are trained on this data set command Corpus. The data set has been using. So, Content, which is out of copyright. So it's a public domain,

Wilson CELY: okay? So there's no license for that.

Amine SABONI: Yeah. It's like it's content which is really made to not made but yeah. Not the license allows, these kind of usage, 4 training.

Wilson CELY: Yeah.

Amine SABONI: Domain newspaper from 70 years before. Like it's really interesting. It's a really open and interesting Corpus. You can build in collaboration with French and German, I guess, companies I can share you some newspaper about that if you want. Yeah,

Wilson CELY: I'm appreciate it.

Amine SABONI: So this is the basis of the training of those models and they produce also other Arts. So for instance this is a fine training data set, I guess or a model on a specific data set to fix OCR process when trained to upload archives,

Wilson CELY: oh, okay

Amine SABONI: to use a training. So they propose the whole shoot of tools then it assets, which is open the model and some procedures techniques to. Now, think there are really

Wilson CELY: It's a combination of factors. It's like not only data set, but also the technical reports also. I mean, also, clearly where did they get it from the information and at some tools I mean, Tony is going interesting. The art of fact is Because I guess architecture, you can use whatever right there are many architecture out there so that you need to share just use whatever it is there. But then to really use that that model they explain how they did it. What technique they use. That's super cool. They're appreciated to to see that. Look at that in details later on so this, okay, I got it. This is for you and open source things.

Amine SABONI: So I was asking because maybe he can introduce you to the people who are directing this company. I guess they could be really interesting people for you.

Wilson CELY: Okay. Dresses in Paris my old, look for it. No worries, thank you very much.

Amine SABONI: Yeah, but I can give you another example of the same quality of Open Source.

Wilson CELY: Yeah,

Amine SABONI: she's Alan 2. AI, a2i, sorry.

Wilson CELY: I

Amine SABONI: never. And I okay, and it's a private lab.

Wilson CELY: Okay. Show you. Yeah, yeah.

Amine SABONI: And it was the link to the websites. They I private, they are extremely close to the state of CRT. And they share in. I'm just saying, very accessible way everything. That's shares. They are bigger. and the Beats more fidget like they raise the quote from time to time where players do not they only they don't They cannot really fundraise to go. I don't know why, but they don't have many money, much money. And then AI are really interesting in the reinforcement. Learning, are they provide some state of the word state-of-the-art techniques and they explained them. And it's really interesting for the ml Community to have access to this kind of resources because it trains people from other private Labs on those techniques and that's why people from open AI did mine, it's not the only reason but they can access to this kind of Knowledge from an expert, which is Nathan Lambert. And they can include this in their current work.

Wilson CELY: I think right now reinforced learning is super interesting. It's like most Superstars talking about that in the link. I will look in the details and I think you recall the perfectly Because now you think another components how you see basically AI open source project. It started with the data and the tools and then maybe are it. Reporting reports also about transparency and in architecture so on but then the next question I have is regarding to Pruner. So, so the question is, What specific components of techno technology or prune is open source?

Amine SABONI: Yeah. so, pronoun is integrating, the main was what we consider the main techniques of Making models more efficient. So when talking about quantization caching compilation of models, it's obviously Asian tasks which are made to to make a more efficient.

Wilson CELY: Okay.

Amine SABONI: It's okay. An opinion of course. But what's pruna is offering is the integration of the state of the art methods. In Easy Way, easy and accessible way to use them.

Wilson CELY: Okay,

Amine SABONI: it's a framework to enable non-specialist. Use the state of the arts techniques.

Wilson CELY: Okay? Because looks really quite complex. And in the end, you need to have like a special knowledge to use those different techniques, right? So Bruna, give that for free. And so because we mentioned before about the source in the idea is For example, you are contributing to external projects for you guys as Improvement. Do you want like also external contribution or I mean, what is the whole idea? Open source is more for awareness or basically, how do you see it?

Amine SABONI: You know, we see. We love some external contributions. so, Here we should talk about. What are the benefits more? Generally the benefits of Open Source when you open source of products of yours. Yeah. First you have access to a lot of Mind who are reading the code, people will read, and say, okay this is the way it should be more, maybe they will raise alerts, we have it sometimes. In good carbon saying this is not done correctly, you have been overestimating this or your having a bug here or a security issue here. So having the very often people do that for you is really really interesting,

Wilson CELY: okay.

Amine SABONI: So you can say it's being able to be vigilant. Second thing, people bring lots of new ideas when they know what your tool is being able to do. They can provide new techniques. The same technique that's done better.

Wilson CELY: Okay,

Amine SABONI: so not only you can catch bugs but you can have better ideas if other people are aware. and also, its Maybe it's more forced carbon than pruna but its mission of transparency when you are building. For instance, you are visiting a model. You are opening AI. You are building a model, which is state of the art. Being able in the technical reports to say we are transparent towards the carbon emissions of a tool of our model. Sorry. Thanks to this tool. Is. It helps building trust from your users because they know that they can verify what you say.

Wilson CELY: Okay. Okay, okay. The first is a something which Stacks up over the layers of software?

Amine SABONI: Um, as long as you are able to dive into a stack dependency libraries, you are able to confirm that this product is good or is doing something which is that. And so for now we would like to integrate in other systems or people's information system and having a tool which is open source, let's people will trust on our product and say, okay, we can trust them because they're called seems reliable and safe and well, well,

Wilson CELY: okay, I understand. So you, okay. So if I recap just say something Like a Phillip Phillip following the principle of transparency that we talked about before about this special case for meta. So, prune is basically just giving access to the to the technology so people can see from one side help to correct box. So you bring for improve the technology on the other side. People can validate that actually fulfill the purpose, right? So you guys, you do compression and you can read a code, you can test it by yourself. And you know, say look those guys know what they're doing. They know very well technique and actually is working, but then if I, for example, maybe just knife question because I'm not really into the field. But if I cannot smash my model, like, you know, I run the library's, I don't know it. Maybe as much as we call it. Okay. Now, it's more linear. Like Words more efficiently in inference. What is like, what is? Why should I get this? Like the next step like this, premium, let's say package is Bruno.

Amine SABONI: so we offer some of the things which are working like most of the cases, And I providing a Quality quality. Rate after the compression. Which is at a certain level,

Wilson CELY: okay?

Amine SABONI: once you have done this optimization phase as a open source user, it's a Like this in every software, I can provide you a different example actually. Once you have mastered the open source how to say, level of what she's offered in the open source people you would start asking okay but this I can do it a bit better and you can see that the prune pro package which is paid offer this feature.

Wilson CELY: okay, for

Amine SABONI: instance, we have a recovery feature in the pro package, which once you do the compression, you have a small loss of quality. The recovery feature enables you with the small data set. To remove this quality decreases by retraining very specifically on what has been lost.

Wilson CELY: Okay. That's super interesting. So you mean you can buy you cannot back go backwards in case something Yeah, this is what I understand, right? Like you you optimize? and then,

Amine SABONI: You do your first optimization? Yeah,

Wilson CELY: exactly.

Amine SABONI: And now you become a bit more aware about what is optimization, how can I go deeper?

Wilson CELY: Okay? Exactly. And, and is it like, I mean, I've been checking also the the WhatsApp Bruner, but it's really related to give my the architecture of my model or for example, The type of technology and using, there are some more adapted Technologies for compression than others. So How does it work? Yes,

Amine SABONI: yes, yes. You are right. Yes, we offer. Some of which are really popular cage for specific architectures.

Wilson CELY: Okay, so this basically the what the difference between like open source and let's say more premium Services. You want to like a deeper level of optimization. I think our goal. There

Amine SABONI: is another one. Okay, we are working on providing A set of Tools around the optimization process,

Wilson CELY: okay?

Amine SABONI: Which helps having. An organization organizational, level usage of the optimization. It's another characteristic that you will see on other open source projects. Let me maybe give you another example. Yes. So currently as a developer I'm using Castro which is an open source data, orchestration platform, it's drums over the time. and I integrating this into our information system, As a developer and the open source version is really nice. I can just use it, but if I want to use it with my team or with other teams, one feature I need is being about to have secure access and accessing. So this is not opened by the it's not included in the operator version.

Wilson CELY: But

Amine SABONI: the premium version I can access to user rights Administration panel, where I can say these people have access to this data database and this people access to this one. So it's a sass feature which is helping the organization adopt the tool.

Wilson CELY: Okay. So you understand. So basically I didn't do like a role like open source, you do it, you do everything yourself. Like in crafting, oh yeah. Like a more like Enterprise solution which is just talking playing operate and yeah, that's a lot of sense but then I have a question. How do you guys Decide what remains open source and proprietary. Because if basically made a limited level of understanding, you cannot provide SDK of everything already, that's what the tool, the helmet to do, it kind of on the package, right? And and then you have a tool even better. That actually optimized with that, without really specific more detail cases, but I don't know, just curiosity. Do you have like an open source? How do you organize internally to this? Okay, this goes open source is not open source and we improve that part or basically just still experimentation.

Amine SABONI: So, I think I'm not the best one to talk to about this because Stefan, I don't know. Stephen Goodman.

Wilson CELY: Yeah.

Amine SABONI: So he will be the person to answer this question, okay? It's just it's discussion and

Wilson CELY: okay, okay, it's got it.

Amine SABONI: And

Wilson CELY: also are you providing like open circuit contribution yourself or developer or mostly you kind of hold yourself of doing it. So you can know that. So all the developers can do it.

Amine SABONI: so that's what I Was but apparently I find something. But on the open source repo, I do some chores like packaging, like automating things. Automating tests. Oh, upgrading some some yeah. So I still do some contributions with open source people even if it's not really related to the efficient ml tasks and I find it really cool.

Wilson CELY: Yeah, cool. Alright, so the now because you join in October. Let's, let's think about backwards when when they join. They I mean, I don't know, I think I mean prune because oh, how can face? Yeah, so I don't know. Maybe are you are you familiar with this hulking face? I don't call it open source, but It's pretty vintage when you can upload, don't load models like pruning. Yeah, I'm yeah,

Amine SABONI: they have 10,000 models and that's where I went to the website and applied to the company.

Wilson CELY: Okay, so so because of that basically you you want you decide to apply to brunaugh because you

Amine SABONI: Yeah, I saw that they were operating optimization on a really large scale on a really large number of models. I'm sorry, it wasn't 10,000 at the time, it was the most number of open models of having Facebook. But anyway, it was a tweet. I went to their website so what they did and so that they were opening a job for a position for my exact role. And say, okay, I can apply and because I was also contributor, of course carbon. I think they enjoy the open source. Know.

Wilson CELY: That's cool. It's interesting because somehow You have like a more basically inside about how that basically experimentation like when like for example, what were the learning and what were like, they know good thing about that experiment or you just hugging face? Like nothing. Just

Amine SABONI: Yeah sure we have. Okay this is really important part of our activities. The first task I did when I joined was to Port from their previous infrastructure, these capabilities to automatically smash every model which is published face and my question from their previous.

Wilson CELY: Okay. So

Amine SABONI: it's really important for now. We consider every popular model to to be smashed. There is an arguing algorithm which it's not reads. Every new model and see if it needs to be smashed or not and we track the downloads of the open source models. We have as a key competitive metric to be totally Frank with you.

Wilson CELY: That's because that's all I saw it. Basically the number. I mean, maybe I mean it's public, right. You can see number download and it's quite interesting. But do you work in when you did this in collaboration with some marketing to see? Okay, now we have a new model with match it and then we communicate or how busy. How was that that thing? Oh, Because I guess it's awareness, that's more like marketing purposes or maybe I'm wrong.

Amine SABONI: When we? Like, because we are not. The only people who do this machine process, we may have some Nice API delete but other people do it. Or if you are the first to announce it, you have like a small momentum.

Wilson CELY: Okay, you announced it like internally hugging face in the. You have like two months

Amine SABONI: on Twitter or not really to announce it but to make it available, okay. First to make it available on hugging face platform, people will look for instance, a deep seek everyone quantized know. Okay, so that's interesting. Yeah. So it's like okay so then you need to be like super reactive to to get this momentum and because I guess that's why we have it and whatever model we can smash we smash it and if it's popularly It's just someone else. It won't be popular. Hmm. It's new release. Then we smash it and it okay I guess it they found out that I guess and it was a basically Stephan who decides he is Motors popular or not. Oh

Wilson CELY: I guess the founder design. Who, what is his matching? What is not as much. Oh, do you have like a position

Amine SABONI: which is based on likes of the roads? It can be a better but it's a heuristic about the trends of the bottles. It's automated.

Wilson CELY: Oh really. Oh awesome. Do you really puree? I company.

Amine SABONI: It's not as precise as if it was, who does it every day to make it.

Wilson CELY: Oh, that interesting. And you know, I mean just just because it's interesting about that. Do you have like, Any partnership with hugging face. So,

Amine SABONI: Nothing really official but we collaborate with them on multiple topics. One is about the consultation, we are directly with the team and, for instance, or things like that. So we share a slack Channel and we have some more official Partnerships for instance, last November or December. They released a model, which is the It was a second model of this D series and we did smashing. Specially version of smashed version of this model in many configurations and we did a blog post with them on that.

Wilson CELY: Okay. So there are also releasing their own limb somehow like for

Amine SABONI: A

Wilson CELY: oh that's that's very good and so thank you. That's super insightful to understand. I mean why of the hugging face basically experiment and now this is, you know, I went to this Open source. Party. That was hosted. Double in Paris and in Munich. I don't know your family with

Amine SABONI: Yeah. And

Wilson CELY: what is the newest strategy? I know. We asked this question again, but they just because to get more familiar to understand what, what do you guys want out of this? I mean, this Ripple.

Amine SABONI: Yeah. so, We want to raise awareness about Ephesians ml.

Wilson CELY: Okay,

Amine SABONI: and we want to set. A like our way to do it. Like a standard ideal. I'm talking about what? I understand. Not maybe the company's strategy but What I understand is, if you are a standard on the industry, everyone will be likely to your, your code, your software. The same way I can face it. Everyone uses Transformers or the hugging face Hub Library. Because it's the most standard way of manipulating machine learning models.

Wilson CELY: Yeah. So if

Amine SABONI: we set ourselves at the most standard way of doing officials and then like doing consideration, doing a compilation, Everyone will use Pune.

Wilson CELY: Okay, that's it right? Because in that case, Your approaches. Like, I don't want to have a library in quantization. I don't want to have a library improving, you know, whatever this relationship, I don't know. I just want to have like this glow and Library who wants, The ideas to make a standard like like, how do you say Transformer? Right? For

Amine SABONI: instance, I think it's one of the objectives but not To copy exactly Transformers but yeah. As necessary as this. And it's not only about the direct methods, but it's also providing an ecosystem of tools which helps you like, benchmarking, your models comparing the results doing a lot of things around these efficient optimization process in efficiency.

Wilson CELY: That's interesting. So but where do you provide information is incoming face? For example if you want to look a model in computer vision for my specific use case, I don't know let's say Medical Imaging right I have my model or other maybe medical specific and just maybe like say typically start in which are your picture and then you know do you do LinkedIn profile pictures and maybe I want to some model and so I would go talking face, I will go to see what is the most efficient? so, in terms of, Library

Amine SABONI: of models. You go to fish, if you don't want to do the optimization by yourself, you would like to go to face,

Wilson CELY: okay? To see the to compare, you know, okay.

Amine SABONI: You know, yeah, to help the models. Also, we one thing we would like to do and maybe you can discuss this with a Stefan is to be present on opening the boards. Where you compare the? Okay, maybe I can share you one. Yeah. On which we are maybe aiming to to be. You compare different model on a set of tasks. Okay, is it? Hey, yes. Holistic evolution of language models. and then if you see on this leaderboard that a model contains by Pune, Is as permanent as another one, which is not concise. You will say, okay, I get the same accuracy. For a smaller model or more efficient model, and we'd like to to see what's pronounce offering an opportunity to package and for more custom needs. A paying a package which is prenup.

Wilson CELY: that's interesting, this okay this is like a little work exactly for optimization somehow look like and

Amine SABONI: of the accuracy.

Wilson CELY: Oh, okay. Okay. Okay.

Amine SABONI: And here on a pronoun. We would like to say, even Even when the model are smaller, we can compete with the same models, which are not optimized. On term of quality and accuracy.

Wilson CELY: That does very interesting. Okay, so now I think the expectations are clear. let me see if it was now, we we have so many questions, but you have the answer, all the questions during the And maybe just okay, a good. I have a question up. Now they're super clear this strategy. How do you guys basically as a company are tracking success? And this and also again start from a point, which I'm not really if I'm here how to track open source. Success. I mean, of course I'm I believe it's contribution. But do you have a little ways? Or to actually tell. Okay, this open source strategies working like, you know, now with the with the library is available,

Amine SABONI: I'm not sure. A lot of the signal you can get from every of losing indicators. But it has for short signal, you have the GitHub stars of a repo meaning, how many people found it? So useful, they are liking the river. You have the daily monthly all-time download on the package repository. Maybe,

Wilson CELY: Okay.

Amine SABONI: But this is really linear. The number of downloads. You have a few packages which, which have an exponential increase in terms of lives, but at some point every package becomes a trend and it's growing linearly, so I'm not sure how relevant is this this indicator? And then we have on GitHub the open source tool, which know the website which enables princess contributions. You have engagement coming from this, cushions questions issues requests Bank reporting. Those are numbers. You have the aggregate, those numbers to give you like an engagement score. That's interesting. Yeah, that's the kind of kpi who would like to try to measure how many hours of these open source people.

Wilson CELY: And then a question mostly you as a developer when you when you go to An open source repo. So this is the thing you just do. You want to see to the term in yourself? If the repo is like a pository is is like a worth it? Love you better. I don't know. What is the word like makes sense. You look at exactly just that like this the starter they start counts. Contribution. Public request this you have. I don't know, man. The small a small small process that you have created yourself to sell. This people make sense, I check this. Oh, what do you do in general?

Amine SABONI: Yes. So this is a good question. The answer depends of your role and and because I have been in multiple roles, I can give you those answers. If you are an individual contributor, a developer who wants to interview these quickly in some API or in your parts of your development workflow and you day-to-day work then, I will have a look to the freshness of the code. When was the last commit? When was the last request if they are external contributors or if it's only the internal contributors who are submitting requests And obviously the number of stars and downloads to see if it's used by many people and the edge cases have been identified yet or not.

Wilson CELY: Okay.

Amine SABONI: Maybe on a more infrastructure or UPS point of view like how this can be integrating into information system. You would like to see some more long-term, how to say commitments? Like, is the project by a company is Out of it. Breaking changes happening on the version upgrades. Is numbers that you can. It's things that you can actually see on the open source repo you need to to do some researchers to understand. and maybe when you do some, like, Strategy. For instance, input. Carbon we last year, we built a new website, a new SAS application. We had to decide between two technologies. We and it was more like a strategy point of view for the authentication of the website. What we But also studied the governance of the project. So who takes decisions, how is this project? Following certain type of ecosystem and want to tie our project to this ecosystem and we made a strategic decision which was to integrate the identity ecosystem. I don't know if you know that

Wilson CELY: no, unfortunately,

Amine SABONI: okay, so one of the Python Community around data science but that's really data science. So and we committed on this because strategically for us, we even if the tech we chose was open source and a bit less good than other texts. We could we other software's. Sorry, we committed to do those use this because we personally do developer, he was on specific topics and he is really implanted in this ecosystem and we were able to get ourselves a bit deeper into ecosystem by using his technology.

Wilson CELY: Okay, that's interesting. And that was very like, clear picture. Thank you very much and I guess maybe the the mandatory question is, like, how do you guys are Bruno line with this level? Maybe we're going communities. Do you like align one specific communities or trying to build with your own Community? Well, around this

Amine SABONI: so, for a commercial product, it's a bit different because Share, obviously, we would like, to build our own Community, but I think this is my personal point of view that we, we need to identify a distribution Channel. So for the moment hacking face has been a really great distribution Channel because like, as I saw, you can is doing a promotion on their website, we can really find models of pronoun. So it's making its making us visible. But I think there is something to find about distribution Channel. And one example you can find is our one of our competitors were narrow magic. I don't know if, you know,

Wilson CELY: yeah. Yeah.

Amine SABONI: they wear the main Engineers of So they were part of the meeting of the vln project.

Wilson CELY: Okay, I know this one. But

Amine SABONI: yeah. And they identified additional, which was not easy to identify, which is red hat. Really. Magic should be about by red hat but doing that. The integrated villain the villain project. And then the software that it was 11, deep into the unique Community, because real hat has a really A really large impact on the ecosystem. They build their own version of the Centos. Machine. So, you know, machine that operating system. So there is solution Channel. Now is a really large and they target some Large companies, which are asking for a lot of support on technical things. So, I think this is a really smart move from to have targeted. This, this dishwasher that's super interesting. And I think

Wilson CELY: actually also answered the next question is, how to like combine this strategy with the customer that Precision? But I think you answered perfectly is like that, in those communities, who have like the rake, absolute customers. And like, regards, I mean, I don't know like a better name that for open source that right hat. I mean, they created the whole linen stuff in soil and, but so you, but I guess, That open up, that's good. A good way to approach it right for you to guys to look does ecosystem in Europe. So if there's not closer to that or you're still looking like you see how hugging face like the good opportunity or similar approach.

Amine SABONI: So this is hard to say because you don't want to stick too much because so I'm not part of the strategy and so I cannot say yeah maybe but we don't want to get too much tied to hugging face because at some point we might become not really today but a competitor like not at the same scale. But we would like at some point to get access to the same customers. Do

Wilson CELY: they have like a optimization library in Phase?

Amine SABONI: Oh, yeah. And we were working with them.

Wilson CELY: Okay, but, but because of the optimization is such a big word. Like, are you competitors and collaborated in some point, right? Or how does it work?

Amine SABONI: Yes. We imported their package in our package.

Wilson CELY: Yeah.

Amine SABONI: And we develop Alternatives way of doing the same things, they are doing. because, Don't take it but it's a mess. It's working on a lot of topics and Okay, whatever they can do, they do it and it's repeat the same whatever we can do while integrating in the haging phase framework. We do it also. So yeah.

Wilson CELY: Okay. And then okay, you understand because I think I read one they have this library of optimum optimum optimum. Yeah. Exactly. So I guess but I didn't understand me, but like, behind the scenes is like a specialized in quantization or I don't know, like pruning or they kind of technique that just didn't quite get it, but this more technical in case, we don't need to talk about that. Just one little question, we're gonna face and then they close this chapter. Are you guys hosting once you? Because I just don't understand you basically get the models from hugging face, right? Like these latest one. And then you upload it. You load it and upload it in AWS. So how you face?

Amine SABONI: Okay, here and linking to the initial model, which has served to produce this lighter version. Okay.

Wilson CELY: Perfect awesome. Just we're going to last part. Is we talked about many things like if there's anything else in this context was open, sorry, AI that we have in talk about it. Would you like to share?

Amine SABONI: So I'm not sure it's related to your topic. However, there is an important factor to on open source which is about to regulation.

Wilson CELY: Okay?

Amine SABONI: Yeah. so there is all these AI safety debates which is really not understood. This just will in the tech journalism I guess for the reporting the ahh topics are two fiber cited by too much. The Jose effective, at least, it's taking too much place in these AI safety. So these interests has conducted the California to prepare two to Lowe's, which were to regulate those open source models. They also had impact in the European act reduction, it was really limited because there is a lot of lobbying, I'm going in the Europe and they couldn't have the same impact as the US. But I think this is bringing in the wrong direction.

Wilson CELY: Okay.

Amine SABONI: Banning the or even slowing the Advent of research labs. Or limiting the research on models to specific closed labs. On Frontier models. So sorry, I'm not sure you are aware of

Wilson CELY: this Mission. Yeah,

Amine SABONI: yeah. That's I think this is going on the wrong direction and even on the regulation topic, We should have open and transparent models techniques and data. Because it's the only way that we can regulate securely the safetiness of those models. I'm not sure. It was very clear what I said?

Wilson CELY: No. Yeah, I think I understand the the general direction but I guess it's a question of The how are they controlling like the prick? Because I guess this effective address, they want to control Ai and somehow look like they're more targeting open sour than those clothes lap. And I think of fully agree with you is for unfortunate. But how can they do it? I mean, they don't have the means I mean, unless there's law that go into those the into the yarnish in each state or in Europe, that control it but there's at least one thing and I don't know and it's not about licensing. There is no, there's nothing. There's no much written about license. How to control basically, or how to organize open source. Through license are not your family with the topic or there's no much regardless licenses.

Amine SABONI: It's more like they want to only allow a certain number of actors to produce those Frontier models. Because those would be the only actors who has access to the tooling, and to the methodology to like produce aligned AI.

Wilson CELY: Okay, okay.

Amine SABONI: I think this is a

Wilson CELY: perfect, so I will stop.
